Coronavirus Live Updates: Governors in U.S. Hot Spots Plea for More Testing - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexU.S.Log InToday’s PaperU.S.|Coronavirus Live Updates: Governors in U.S. Hot Spots Plea for More Testinghttps://nyti.ms/2KdE02j
The Coronavirus Outbreak
debugid:204
•
Latest Updates
Maps and Tracker
Markets
Stimulus Checks
What You Can Do
Newsletter
AdvertisementContinue reading the main storySupported byContinue reading the main storyLIVE UPDATESUpdated April 19, 2020, 6:01 a.m. ETApril 19, 2020, 6:01 a.m. ETCoronavirus Live Updates: Governors in U.S. Hot Spots Plea for More TestingNew York and New Jersey say they can’t reopen their economies without wider tests for the virus. School cafeterias are essentially serving as community food banks for families in need.Right NowThe “One World” online concert that brought together artists from around the globe has raised more than $35 million.Here’s what you need to know:The federal government is asked to help with testing.What could the year ahead look like for the U.S.?School cafeterias are now feeding whole families.Dozens of performers join a global concert to benefit coronavirus relief.What it’s like when Congress works from home.Those we’ve lost: Tarlach MacNiallais, who fought for gay and disability rights, dies at 57.Clearing up the confusion about keeping safe distances.ImageA New York City police officer outside a walk-in coronavirus testing center in the Bronx on Saturday.Credit...Desiree Rios for The New York TimesThe federal government is asked to help with testing.The United States was pulled in different directions in dealing with the coronavirus this weekend as the governors of New York and New Jersey called on the Trump administration to help them ramp up testing, President Trump pushed people in some states to rebel against lockdowns and governors considered easing social distancing restrictions.“I’m not asking the federal government to do more than they need to,” Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York said on Saturday. “But we do need their coordination. We need their partnership.”Gov. Phil Murphy of New Jersey has said he would be “the happiest guy” if he were able to start reopening the state on June 1. But he told ABC News’s “Powerhouse Politics” podcast last week that he and other governors in the region needed the federal government’s assistance to carry out broad testing and to trace the contact that infected people have had with others.New estimates by researchers at Harvard University suggest that the United States as a whole cannot safely reopen unless over the next month it conducts more than three times the number of coronavirus tests it is currently administering.Data from New York and New Jersey appeared encouraging on Saturday. In both states, the curve of new infections appeared to be flattening or dropping. In New Jersey, the number of new cases and hospitalizations was leveling off, and New York reported its lowest daily death toll in more than two weeks, at 540.But Mr. Cuomo emphasized the need for federal help to carry the widespread coronavirus testing that officials say is necessary to reopen New York’s economy. He and Mr. Trump have clashed over the level of federal aid given to the state, and the president has suggested that certain governors have not been demonstrably grateful for the aid. Mr. Trump has also encouraged protests of social distancing restrictions in Michigan, Minnesota and Virginia, states with democratic governors.Mr. Cuomo noted that 36 of New York’s newly reported deaths were at nursing homes, which he described as “the single biggest fear in all of this.” New Jersey’s health commissioner said 40 percent of the state’s 4,070 coronavirus-related deaths had occurred at long-term care facilities, which have been overwhelmed by the virus.Governor Murphy called the federal government an “indispensable partner” in stopping the pandemic. “So we’ve got to find common ground,” he said.An average of 146,000 people per day have been tested for the coronavirus in the United States this month, according to the Covid Tracking Project. To reopen the country by mid-May, the Harvard estimates suggest that the number of daily tests performed between now and then should be 500,000 to 700,000.That level of testing would be required in order to identify most people who are infected and isolate them from people who are healthy, the researchers say.Separately on Saturday, federal officials acknowledged that sloppy laboratory practices at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention had caused contamination that rendered the nation’s first coronavirus tests ineffective.Two of the three C.D.C. laboratories in Atlanta that created the coronavirus test kits violated their own manufacturing standards, which meant that the agency sent tests that did not work properly to nearly all of the 100 state and local public health labs, according to the Food and Drug Administration.Coronavirus Testing Needs to Triple Before the U.S. Can Reopen, Experts SayAs some governors look to ease coronavirus restrictions, public health experts say the country needs at least half a million tests per day to safely reopen.What could the year ahead look like for the U.S.?When can people safely emerge from their homes? How long, realistically, before there is a coronavirus treatment or vaccine? How can the virus be kept at bay?More than 20 experts in public health, medicine, epidemiology and history shared their thoughts on the future during in-depth interviews with The New York Times.Some said that American ingenuity, once fully engaged, might produce advances to ease the burdens. Several saw a path forward that depends on factors that are difficult but possible: a carefully staggered approach to reopening, widespread coronavirus testing and tracking, a treatment that works, adequate resources for health care providers — and eventually an effective vaccine.“My optimistic side says the virus will ease off in the summer and a vaccine will arrive like the cavalry,” one said. “But I’m learning to guard against my essentially optimistic nature.”Most experts believed that once the crisis is over, the nation and its economy will revive quickly — but that there will be no escaping a period of intense pain.Coronavirus in the U.S.: Latest Map and Case CountA detailed county map shows the extent of the coronavirus outbreak, with tables of the number of cases by county.School cafeterias are now feeding whole families.After the coronavirus shut down America’s education system, districts fortified their school meals programs to ensure that their most needy students would stay fed. One month in, school leaders realize that the federal programs set up to subsidize meals for tens of millions of students cannot meet the demands of an emergency that has turned their cafeterias into food banks and community kitchens.Several districts are now feeding adults and sending days’ worth of food home for entire families. And they are doing so at a cost that under federal rules they will not recoup.The nation’s 12 largest school districts will spend $12 million to $19 million through the end of June to meet the demands of their pandemic meals operations, estimated Katie Wilson, the executive director of the Urban School Food Alliance, whose members include large urban districts in Los Angeles, Baltimore, New York and Chicago.The organization, which is pleading for relief from Congress, the Agriculture Department and the Federal Emergency Management Agency, has also set up a donation page to help districts cover costs.“Every one of these schools that has their doors open are literally heroes on the front line,” Ms. Wilson said. “Food workers are now first responders.”Dozens of performers join a global concert to benefit coronavirus relief.A cross-platform global concert seeking to raise money for Covid-19 response efforts featured performances by some of the biggest names in music on Saturday.With eight hours of performances, the event, which was organized by the antipoverty organization Global Citizens, had a scheduled run time almost as long as its name (“One World: Together at Home Special to Celebrate Covid-19 Workers”).“It is so important to think globally and support the World Health Organization to curb the pandemic and prevent future outbreaks,” Lady Gaga, who helped curate the all-star lineup, said at a news conference on Monday. “We want to highlight the gravity of this historical, unprecedented and cultural movement.”The last two hours of the show, which featured Stephen Colbert, Jimmy Fallon and Jimmy Kimmel as hosts, aired on NBC, CBS and ABC.Alanis Morissette, Andrea Bocelli, Billie Eilish, David Beckham, Idris Elba, John Legend, Celine Dion, Elton John, Lizzo, Keith Urban and more were scheduled to appear.The lineup for the six-hour preshow, which tilted more heavily toward international acts, was scheduled to include performances by Angèle, Luis Fonsi, Jessie J, Juanes and others.The event came together when the United Nations and the W.H.O. asked Global Citizen to support their Covid-19 response by bringing together the world through music and inspiring people to take action.Contributions from corporate partners will go to the W.H.O.’s Solidarity Response Fund to support and equip health care workers across the globe. The W.H.O. has shipped two million pieces of personal protection equipment and supplies to 68 countries.The initiative had raised more than $35 million.What it’s like when Congress works from home.ImageRepresentative Mike Gallagher, Republican of Wisconsin, started a podcast.Credit...Elizabeth D. Herman for The New York TimesImageRepresentative Debbie Dingell, Democrat of Michigan, sharing a Facebook diary.Credit...Elizabeth D. Herman for The New York TimesWith the Capitol shuttered until at least early May and the House considering remote voting to facilitate a more prolonged absence from Washington, members of Congress are sequestered at home like the rest of America, forced to reimagine how to do their jobs virtually.It is a singular challenge for lawmakers, whose tasks typically revolve around human contact with a rotating cast of constituents, staff, lobbyists and fellow lawmakers. They have come up with creative (some more than others) solutions.The Times spoke to lawmakers about how they’re adapting to the new world.Representative Debbie Dingell, Democrat of Michigan, is sharing both intimate details and public-service information in a Facebook diary. Senator Angus King, independent of Maine, is meeting constituents — from a distance — in the open air. Many other lawmakers have turned to teleconferencing. And at least one, Representative Mike Gallagher, Republican of Wisconsin, has started a podcast.Those we’ve lost: Tarlach MacNiallais, who fought for gay and disability rights, dies at 57.Tarlach MacNiallais was known for his decades of advocacy for L.G.B.T.Q. and disability rights.“A battering ram on issues of importance,” according to Harriet Golden, a vice president at A.H.R.C. New York City, an organization that serves people with intellectual and developmental disabilities, where Mr. MacNiallais worked for nearly 35 years.Moving from Northern Ireland to New York in the mid-1980s, Mr. MacNiallais became involved in the protracted struggle by L.G.B.T.Q. groups to be fully included in the St. Patrick’s Day Parade up Fifth Avenue. Many years later, he became a member of the New York City St. Patrick’s Day Parade formation committee, and marched in the parade with the Lavender and Green Alliance in 2016.Mr. MacNiallais died on April 1. He was 57. The cause was complications of the coronavirus, according to friends and family.Clearing up the confusion about keeping safe distances.Six feet is the suggested space to keep between people in stores and on casual strolls, but when we walk briskly or run, air moves differently around us, increasing the space required to maintain a proper social distance.What’s happening around the world?Israel is preparing to lift some restrictions put in place to stem the spread of the coronavirus, and Malaysia is asked to stop turning away Rohingya refugees.Reporting was contributed by Erica L. Green, Lola Fadulu, Donald G. McNeil Jr., Nicholas Fandos, Sheryl Gay Stolberg, Derrick Bryson Taylor and Melina Delkic.
The Coronavirus Outbreak
Frequently Asked Questions and Advice
Updated April 11, 2020
When will this end?
This is a difficult question, because a lot depends on how well the virus is contained. A better question might be: “How will we know when to reopen the country?” In an American Enterprise Institute report, Scott Gottlieb, Caitlin Rivers, Mark B. McClellan, Lauren Silvis and Crystal Watson staked out four goal posts for recovery: Hospitals in the state must be able to safely treat all patients requiring hospitalization, without resorting to crisis standards of care; the state needs to be able to at least test everyone who has symptoms; the state is able to conduct monitoring of confirmed cases and contacts; and there must be a sustained reduction in cases for at least 14 days.
How can I help?
The Times Neediest Cases Fund has started a special campaign to help those who have been affected, which accepts donations here. Charity Navigator, which evaluates charities using a numbers-based system, has a running list of nonprofits working in communities affected by the outbreak. You can give blood through the American Red Cross, and World Central Kitchen has stepped in to distribute meals in major cities. More than 30,000 coronavirus-related GoFundMe fund-raisers have started in the past few weeks. (The sheer number of fund-raisers means more of them are likely to fail to meet their goal, though.)
What should I do if I feel sick?
If you’ve been exposed to the coronavirus or think you have, and have a fever or symptoms like a cough or difficulty breathing, call a doctor. They should give you advice on whether you should be tested, how to get tested, and how to seek medical treatment without potentially infecting or exposing others.
Should I wear a mask?
The C.D.C. has recommended that all Americans wear cloth masks if they go out in public. This is a shift in federal guidance reflecting new concerns that the coronavirus is being spread by infected people who have no symptoms. Until now, the C.D.C., like the W.H.O., has advised that ordinary people don’t need to wear masks unless they are sick and coughing. Part of the reason was to preserve medical-grade masks for health care workers who desperately need them at a time when they are in continuously short supply. Masks don’t replace hand washing and social distancing.
How do I get tested?
If you’re sick and you think you’ve been exposed to the new coronavirus, the C.D.C. recommends that you call your healthcare provider and explain your symptoms and fears. They will decide if you need to be tested. Keep in mind that there’s a chance — because of a lack of testing kits or because you’re asymptomatic, for instance — you won’t be able to get tested.
How does coronavirus spread?
It seems to spread very easily from person to person, especially in homes, hospitals and other confined spaces. The pathogen can be carried on tiny respiratory droplets that fall as they are coughed or sneezed out. It may also be transmitted when we touch a contaminated surface and then touch our face.
Is there a vaccine yet?
No. Clinical trials are underway in the United States, China and Europe. But American officials and pharmaceutical executives have said that a vaccine remains at least 12 to 18 months away.
What makes this outbreak so different?
Unlike the flu, there is no known treatment or vaccine, and little is known about this particular virus so far. It seems to be more lethal than the flu, but the numbers are still uncertain. And it hits the elderly and those with underlying conditions — not just those with respiratory diseases — particularly hard.
What if somebody in my family gets sick?
If the family member doesn’t need hospitalization and can be cared for at home, you should help him or her with basic needs and monitor the symptoms, while also keeping as much distance as possible, according to guidelines issued by the C.D.C. If there’s space, the sick family member should stay in a separate room and use a separate bathroom. If masks are available, both the sick person and the caregiver should wear them when the caregiver enters the room. Make sure not to share any dishes or other household items and to regularly clean surfaces like counters, doorknobs, toilets and tables. Don’t forget to wash your hands frequently.
Should I stock up on groceries?
Plan two weeks of meals if possible. But people should not hoard food or supplies. Despite the empty shelves, the supply chain remains strong. And remember to wipe the handle of the grocery cart with a disinfecting wipe and wash your hands as soon as you get home.
Can I go to the park?
Yes, but make sure you keep six feet of distance between you and people who don’t live in your home. Even if you just hang out in a park, rather than go for a jog or a walk, getting some fresh air, and hopefully sunshine, is a good idea.
Should I pull my money from the markets?
That’s not a good idea. Even if you’re retired, having a balanced portfolio of stocks and bonds so that your money keeps up with inflation, or even grows, makes sense. But retirees may want to think about having enough cash set aside for a year’s worth of living expenses and big payments needed over the next five years.
What should I do with my 401(k)?
Watching your balance go up and down can be scary. You may be wondering if you should decrease your contributions — don’t! If your employer matches any part of your contributions, make sure you’re at least saving as much as you can to get that “free money.”
AdvertisementContinue reading the main storySite IndexSite Information Navigation© 2020 The New York Times CompanyNYTCoContact UsWork with usAdvertiseT Brand StudioYour Ad ChoicesPrivacyTerms of ServiceTerms of SaleSite MapHelpSubscriptions